1.Which is not a characteristic of Thatcherism?
A.Increased social welfare
B.British nationalism
C.Deregulation and free markets
D.Privatization of state-owned companies

2.Match the capitals to the countries:
    1.England 	.	A. Belfast
    2.Scotland 	.	B. Cardiff

    3.Wales 	.	C. London
    4.Northern Ireland 	.	D. Edinburgh

3.What mnemonic device is used to help American school children remember the names of the Great Lakes?
A.HAUNT
B.BREAD
C.HOMES
D.BIRDS

4.Apublic school is Great Britain:
A.Is free of charge and open to the public
B.Funded by the government
C.Academically selective and expensive
D.Is only for children aged 4-6
5.What events influenced 20th century American literature? 
6.Which of these is not a British holiday?
A.Trooping the Colour
B.Bonfire Night
C.Boxing Day
D.Juneteenth


7.A“Civil bond” marriage in the United States:
A.Is not legal between interracial couples
B.Has a 75% chance of ending in divorce
C.Is legally recognized by the state
D.Must be held in a religious institution

8.The highest court in the United States is:
A.The Civil Rights Court
B.The Environmental Protections Court
C.The Surpeme Court
D.The Disctrict Court 9.Describe the English Reformation.
9.Describe the English Reformation.
10.Who is not a significant figure in Old English literature:
A.Bede
B.Cynwulf
C.Shakespeare
D.Caedmon

11.This classic American sandwich features white bread, crushed peanuts, and fruit spread:
A.Philly Steak and Cheese
B.Peanut Butter and Jelly
C.Hoagie
D.Italian sub
12.How many Justices are on the United State Supreme Court? 
13.What is the dominant sect of Christianity in the United States?
A.Catholicism
B.Protestantism
C.Southern Baptist
D.Pentecostal

14.Following the Glorious Revolution, this document ensured that the monarchy must govern according to the laws of parliament.
A.The Magna Carta
B.The Bill of Rights (1689)
C.The Declaration of Independence (1776)
D.The Federalist Papers

15.Which is not a significant body of water to the UK:
A.The Straits of Dover
B.The English Channel
C.The North Sea
D.The Black Sea

16.American food diversity is mostly a result of:
A.Curiosity
B.Convenience
C.Immigration
D.Imported foods

17.Who was the first female British prime minister?
A.Margaret Atwood
B.Margaret Thatcher
C.Liz Truss
D.Liz Claiborne

18.This US Surpeme Court case legalized same-sex marriage in 2015:
A.Loving V. Virginia
B.Rowe V. Wade
C.Dallas V. Texas
D.Obergefell V. Hodges


19.British Law is primarily based on:
A.The Monarchy
B.The Prime Ministers’ will
C.House of Lords Decree
D.Common and Equity law

20.Early American literature inspired 	and helped shape the new American 	.
A.Voting, electoral system
B.Civil rights, anti-slavery movement
C.Independence, identity
D.Expansionism, colony

21.The 	outlines what subjects must be taught to all school aged children in the UK.
A.Entrance Exam
B.SAT
C.National Curriculum
D.Bible

22.The Jazz Singer was considered one of these:
A.Film Nior
B.Full length animation film
C.Nickelodeon
D.Talkie

23.The Seven Years’ War (1756-1763):
A.Politically linked Great Britain to the Eureopean continent
B.Granted the British monarchy Divine Right
C.Established the UK as the dominant global power
D.Resulted in the collapse of the British Empire

24.This American holiday honors American independence and is celebrated with parades, fireworks, and backyard cookouts with hotdogs and hamburgers:
A.Veteran’s Day
B.The 4th of July
C.Thanksgiving
D.St. Patrick’s Day

25.This British festival commemorates Guy Fawkes’ failed gunpowder treason plot:
A.Bonfire Night
B.Hogmanay
C.Trooping the Colour
D.Boxing Day

26.Give an example of how American food is influenced by cultural diversity.

27.This region of the United States experiences hurricanes every summer/fall:
A.The Midwest
B.The Pacific Northwest
C.The Southwest
D.The Atlantic Coast

28.Which of these is not a famous American novel:
A. 1984
B.Uncle Tom’s Cabin
C.The Bluest Eye
D.A Farewell to Arms

29.What was not a consequence of the Norman Invasion (1066)?
A.England became linked to France and the European continent
B.The feudal system was introduced
C.French language and castle building techniques were introduced
D.The bubonic plague was introduced to the population

30.Which Constitutional amendment guarantees the freedom of religion in America?
A.The 1st
B.The 2nd
C.The 11th
D.The 19th

31.What is the significance of the BBC?

32.Which is not a characteristic of a summer stock theater?
A.Historically located in outdoor/rural places
B.Unprofessional actors
C.An established theater
D.Open from June - September

33.Where is the National Mall located?
A.New York City
B.Chicago
C.Los Angeles
D.Washington, D.C

34.Hollywood is located in 	and is known for its 	industry.

35.This natural disaster occurs in drought-stricken regions of the United States such as the southwest and west coast:

A.Wildfires
B.Earthquakes
C.Polar vortex
D.Tornados

36.Describe the historical significance of Black churches in the United States.

37.Thomas Edison’s short film 	set the stage for the American film industry.
A.The Wizard of Oz
B.The Black Diamond Express
C.The Jazz Singer
D.Gone with the Wind
38.Broadway is located in 	and is known for its 	. 
39.Common Sense by Thomas Paine inspired what historical event:
A.The American Revolution
B.The French and Indian War
C.The Glorious Revolution
D.The American Civil War

40.Which is false about William Shakespeare’s legacy:
A.His works are still studied
B.His works have been translated into all major languages
C.His works are continually adapted and performed
D.His works are written in Old English

41.The longest running Broadway musical is:
A.The Phantom of the Opera
B.Uncle Tom’s Cabin
C.Wicked
D.The Lion King
42.Historically, what were some important developments in the American film industry? 

43.Which of these is not a traditional marriage custom in the United States?
A.A honeymoon
B.A diamond engagement ring
C.A white dress
D.Red roses

44.Following WWII, Great Britain’s:
A.Economy declined
B.Military was reduced

C.Empire declined
D.All of the above

45.If you were visiting the UK and wanted to read an article about the latest celebrity gossip you would pick up a:
A.Broadsheet
B.Tabloid
C.Review
D.Annul

46.Which of these is not a Smithsonian?
A.The National Museum of Natural History
B.The Museum of Modern Art
C.The National Zoo
D.The National Air and Space Museum

47.Which is not a modern duty of the British sovereign?
A.Meeting with foreign heads of state
B.Approving the new prime minister
C.Attending significant cultural, scientific, and charitable events
D.Writing new laws

48.What are the characteristics of a regional theater?


